# TQC
Source codes for implementation of the Kitaev Honeycomb model!

## Codes Description

* show.py
    * a utility script to show .log file generated by netket, either gui or cui
    * see more usages with `./show.log --help`
* honeycomb.py
    * some utility functions which will be used in many other codes. It includes, get_graph_reza(), get_hamiltonian(), exact_diag(), gs_energy_babak(), rbm(), measure() and flip_spins()
    * you need to create machine yourself and pass it to rbm() to train it
    * This script is supposed to only be imported and used in other scripts. One of using demo of this script can be found in calc_gs.py
* exact_diag_for_reza.py
    * a script to show Reza that the exact diagonalize energy is different from Babak's formula
* test_flip_and_measure.py
    * test measure and flip technology by Ising model
* play_with_alpha.py
    * try how large of alpha is suitable, by a 5x5 lattice, 1kx10k trains and alpha 0.1,0.3,0.5,1,1.5,2,3,4,6,8,10.
* try_other_machines.py
    * try ffnn and compare it with rbm, from the perspective of time, effecient of parameters and, the most important, accuracy.
* vortex_energy.py
    * create vortex and measure its energy.
## Results

### Create Vortex and Measure its energy

There are two theoretically equivalent method to create vortices
* a.modifing parameters of RBM
* b.creating a auxiliary Hamiltonian and train again. 

But remember that measuring also takes a lot of times, so the first method is only 3-4 times faster than the other. I will double check using 3x3 lattice below. The numeric result of gs energy of 3x3 lattice is -13.7166(2), the theoretical gs energy is -14.2915.

|spins be flipped|energy of a|energy of b|
|:-:|:-:|:-:|
|8x8z|-11.7335(5)|-12.1070(51)|
|9x9z|-11.7474(5)|-11.8873(57)|
|8y|cannot do that|-12.7447(37)|

Now I turn to larger lattice size, 7x7. The theoretical gs energy of this size is -77.1249, and the gs energy by RBM is -71.7927(30).

|spins be flipped|vortices distance|energy by method a|energy per votex|notes|
|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|
|vortex free|0|-71.7927(30)|-||
|49xy|1|-69.779(34)|1.007(34)|consume 18% RAM so can only run in 4 threads and takes exactly 1.5 days to complete|
|49xy 51xy|2|-67.673(37)|2.060(37)|takes 1.5 days if added another 4 mins|
|47xy 49xy 51xy|3|-65.574(40)|3.109(40)|takes 1.5 days and 3 mins|

### Ground State Energy

Up to now, we have too many methods to calculate gs energies, including
* a. Analytic formula using
    * i. anti-periodic boundry condition
    * ii. periodic boundry condition
* b. The method of Kitaev and Pachos
* c. Create Hamiltonian in Netket and direct diagnolize
* d. RBM (alpha=2, train by 1kx10k)
Here I compare the gs energy of them in different lattice size

|lattice size|2x2|2x3|2x4|3x3|3x4|4x4|5x5|6x6|7x7|8x8|
|:----------:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|
|a.i         |-6.4721|-9.8003|-12.5851|-14.2915|-18.9869|-25.1282|-39.3892|-56.7529|-77.1249|-100.7799|
|a.ii        |-6     |-8     |-12.4721|-9      |-16.9282|-25.4164|-39.3685|-54     |-77.2721|-100.8009|
|b           |-6     |-9.2915|-12.4721|-14.2915|-19.0918|-25.4164|-39.3892|-56.2668|-77.1249|-100.8009|
|c           |-6.9282|-9.8003|-12.9443|-14.2915|-19.0918|/|/|/|/|/|
|d           |       |       |        |-13.7374|        |-24.0783|-37.305 |-52.920 |-71.793 |-93.755  |
### Play with alpha: how many hidden nodes are suitable?

Study how number of hidden nodes, denoted by num_nh, influences accuracy and training time. Fix the __lattice size to 5x5__, train batch number to 1kx10k, optimizer to Sgd(learning_rate=0.01,decay_factor=1), sampler to MetropolisLocal. The exact ground state energy of 5x5 lattice is -39.3892. In the table below, -27.7808(59) means $-27.7808\pm0.0059$.

|alpha|num_nh|num_para|energy|time(s)|notes|
|:---:|:----:|:------:|:----:|:--:|:---:|
|0.1|  5| 305|-27.7808(59)|171.6|
|0.3| 15| 815|-33.4312(37)|455.0|
|0.5| 25|1325|-36.6024(22)|711.9|
|1.0| 50|2600|-37.2464(13)|1549|
|1.5| 75|3875|-37.1235(15)|2764|
|2.0|100|5150|-37.3054(14)|5611|
|3.0|150|7700|-37.3037(14)|8415|
|4.0|200|10250|-37.1007(16)|11204|
|6.0|300|15350|-37.2989(14)|18167|
|8.0|400|20450|-37.1710(15)|26000|
|10.0|500|25550|-37.1946(15)|32056|

* __2 is the most suitable value for alpha__. If it is too low, the fitting performace is not good; too high overfit will happen.
* The training time is approximately proportional to the number of parameters. __For each additional parameter, the training time is increased by about 1 second.__
* __The result of RBM is still far away from the analytic result.__

### The performance of FFNN
Below is the result of FFNN with one layer. As the structure of ffnn is similar to that of a no-visible-bias RBM(reffered as novb RBM below), the performance of one-layer FFNN is compared to that of no-visible-bias RBM.

|alpha|num_nh|num_para|ffnn_energy|novb_rbm_energy|ffnn_time(s)|novb_rbm_time|notes|
|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|
|1.0| 50|2550|-37.2401(15)|-37.1532(15)|2783|2754|
|2.0|100|5100|-37.2958(14)|-36.8954(18)|4591|5476|
|3.0|150|7650|-37.3007(14)|-37.2191(15)|6889|8331|

* FFNN trains faster than RBM and performs better than RBM with no bias.
* But FFNN's result again far away from the analytic one.

Deep FFNNs with 2 and 3 layers are also tried. But some bugs seem happen, the energies stay at -25. It will be studied later.
